README.md, before:

concurrent.sh
=============

A concurrency "module" for `/bin/sh` shell.
Works via messaging to a dedicated helper process.

Allows creating parallel processes ("jobs"), and querying their state.
Usage is lengthy (see `peach.sh` and `manual.sh`).

Could possibly be used to parallelize `configure`.
(Thread-ifying the shell would mean reimplementing subshells as threads
instead of child processes, due to restrictions imposed by `pthread_atfork`).

Has no mutexes.

Relies on:
- Temporary files not to be touched by another process.
- Async subshells implemented by forking.
- Either:
  * Writes to FIFOs being uninterveined. E.g. if shell A does `echo a b c >fifo`,
    and shell B does `echo d e f >fifo`, then `read x <fifo` result should be either
    `a b c` or `d e f`, but not `ad  be f c` or similar.  The `test_fifo.sh` could
    be used to probabilistically check this for a given OS+libc+shell combination.
  * `CONCURRENTSH_TRANSFER` being set to `files`.  The helper process would
    then poll temporary directory instead of reading from a pipe (FIFO).

Requires the user not to call `trap ... EXIT`, as well as not to assign to
`atexit_functions`, and some variables starting with `job_` and `peach_`.
Manually created async subshells need to assign a unique value to `job_self`
before invoking concurrency functions.

Tested on:
- Linux tmpfs, glibc 2.25, bash 4.3.42, dash 0.5.8.2, mksh 52.

Commit message:

convert wakeup fifo reads to a dedicated fd
This also silences errors in shells that fail to 'read <fifo' while it
is being written to by another process (dash 0.5.8.2, mksh 52).

The errors would be printed even when redirecting 'read' as '>/dev/null 2>&1',
perhaps because the shell cannot open the fifo, and opening
belongs to the shell itself, not the 'read' builtin.

Possibility for the errors being printed out was introduced with the
sync daemon, but has only been observed after converting the parallel
each to use it.

README.md, after:

concurrent.sh
=============

A concurrency "module" for `/bin/sh` shell.
Works via messaging to a dedicated helper process.

Allows creating parallel processes ("jobs"), and querying their state.
Usage is lengthy (see `peach.sh` and `manual.sh`).

Could possibly be used to parallelize `configure`.
(Thread-ifying the shell would mean reimplementing subshells as threads
instead of child processes, due to restrictions imposed by `pthread_atfork`).

Has no mutexes.

Relies on:
- Temporary files not to be touched by another process.
- Async subshells implemented by forking.
- Either:
  * Writes to FIFOs being uninterveined. E.g. if shell A does `echo a b c >fifo`,
    and shell B does `echo d e f >fifo`, then `read x <fifo` result should be either
    `a b c` or `d e f`, but not `ad  be f c` or similar.  The `test_fifo.sh` could
    be used to probabilistically check this for a given OS+libc+shell combination.
  * `CONCURRENTSH_TRANSFER` being set to `files`.  The helper process would
    then poll temporary directory instead of reading from a pipe (FIFO).

Requires the user not to call `trap ... EXIT`, as well as not to assign to
`atexit_functions`, and some variables starting with `job_` and `peach_`.
Manually created async subshells, before invoking concurrency functions, need
to assign a unique value to `job_self`, and then call `job_create_wakeup_fifo`.

Takes up a file descriptor for communicating with the helper.

Tested on:
- Linux tmpfs, glibc 2.25, bash 4.3.42, dash 0.5.8.2, mksh 52.
